Nvidia updates (#389)
hyprwm/hyprland-wiki: pages/Nvidia/_index.md

Reviewer: On line 8 we can specify that the following section is intended for the current proprietary driver, not for the legacy one.

Author: Good to know the patch should work with any. I'll just remove that line.

Reviewer: Legacy Nvidia drivers will not work on Wayland as far as I know.

You may want to use the proprietary Nvidia drivers in some cases, for example: if you have a new Nvidia GPU model, if you want more performance, if you want to play video games, if you need a wider feature set (for example, better power consumption on recent GPUs), etc. However, keep in mind that if the proprietary Nvidia drivers do not work properly on your computer, the Nouveau driver might work fine while not having as much features or performance. For [older cards](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#Unsupported_drivers), in order to use Hyprland, you will probably need to use the Nouveau driver which actively supports them.

> Below are some tips to try to make the proprietary Nvidia driver work with Hyprland properly:

Reviewer: Legacy Nvidia drivers will not work on Wayland as far as I know. So the tips below will not work neither with legacy proprietary drivers, nor with the Nouveau drivers.

You may want to use the proprietary Nvidia drivers in some cases, for example: if you have a new Nvidia GPU model, if you want more performance, if you want to play video games, if you need a wider feature set (for example, better power consumption on recent GPUs), etc. However, keep in mind that if the proprietary Nvidia drivers do not work properly on your computer, the Nouveau driver might work fine while not having as much features or performance. For [older cards](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#Unsupported_drivers), in order to use Hyprland, you will probably need to use the Nouveau driver which actively supports them.

{{< hint type=warning >}}
All of the tips are intended to work with `nvidia`, `nvidia-open` or `nvidia-dkms` and do not work with the legacy or Nouveau drivers.

> {{< /hind >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< /hint >}}
```

You may want to use the proprietary Nvidia drivers in some cases, for example: if you have a new Nvidia GPU model, if you want more performance, if you want to play video games, if you need a wider feature set (for example, better power consumption on recent GPUs), etc. However, keep in mind that if the proprietary Nvidia drivers do not work properly on your computer, the Nouveau driver might work fine while not having as much features or performance. For [older cards](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#Unsupported_drivers), in order to use Hyprland, you will probably need to use the Nouveau driver which actively supports them.

{{< hint type=warning >}}

> All of the tips are intended to work with `nvidia`, `nvidia-open` or `nvidia-dkms` and probably won't work with the legacy or Nouveau drivers.

Reviewer: That is good. Although, the word "probably" is unaccurate. They do not work for sure:
- They do not work on Nouveau. This driver is a completely different beast.
- They do not work on the current legacy drivers. In the future, with new legacy drivers, the will work; but for the time being, they do not. (Nvidia started barely supporting Wayland on their drivers in late 2021; and the most current legacy driver date from early 2020).

Thanks.

env = WLR_NO_HARDWARE_CURSORS,1
```

{{< hint >}}If Hyprland crashes on start or you encounter crashes in Firefox, try removing the line `env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm`.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint >}}If you face problems with Discord windows not displaying or screen sharing not working in Zoom, remove or comment the line `env = __GLX_VENDOR_LIBRARY_NAME,nvidia`.
{{< /hint >}}

> {{< hint >}}If you have problems starting Hyprland or animations are sluggish, try following the steps in [Multi GPI](../../Configuring/Multi-GPU), even if you don't have multiple GPUs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< hint >}}If you have problems starting Hyprland or animations are sluggish, try following the steps in [Multi GPU](../../Configuring/Multi-GPU), even if you don't have multiple GPUs.
```

env = WLR_NO_HARDWARE_CURSORS,1
```

> {{< hint >}}If Hyprland crashes on start or you encounter crashes in Firefox, you may want to try removing the line `env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< hint >}}If Hyprland crashes on start or you encounter crashes in Firefox, try removing the line `env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm`.
```
We prefer being concise.

{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint >}}If you face problems with Discord windows not displaying or screen sharing not working in Zoom, remove or comment the line `env = __GLX_VENDOR_LIBRARY_NAME,nvidia`.
{{< /hint >}}

> {{< hint >}}If you have problems starting Hyprland or animations and such are sluggish, you may need to follow the steps in [Multi GPI](../../Configuring/Multi-GPU), even if you don't have multiple GPUs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< hint >}}If you have problems starting Hyprland or animations are sluggish, try following the steps in [Multi GPI](../../Configuring/Multi-GPU), even if you don't have multiple GPUs.
```

env = WLR_NO_HARDWARE_CURSORS,1
```

{{< hint >}}If hyprland crashes on start or you encounter crashes in Firefox, you may want to try removing the line `env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm`.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint >}}If you face problems with Discord windows not displaying or screen sharing not working in Zoom, remove or comment the line `env = __GLX_VENDOR_LIBRARY_NAME,nvidia`.
{{< /hint >}}

Run `lspci | grep VGA`.
The returned line will start with some digits in the form `00:00.0`.
Run `ls -l /dev/dri/by-path`.
You should see at least one file with a filename like `pci-0000:00:00.0-card`.
The one matching the earlier pci entry should be a symbolic link to `card0`, `card1` or `card2`.
Set the environment variable `WLR_DRM_DEVICES` to that filepath.

For example, if I run `lspci | grep VGA` and get

```shell
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GM107 [GeForce GTX 750 Ti] (rev a2)
```

and when I run `ls -l /dev/dri/by-path` I see

```ls
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root  8 Nov  7 07:02 pci-0000:01:00.0-card -> ../card0
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 13 Nov  7 07:02 pci-0000:01:00.0-render -> ../renderD128
```

I would add

```sh

> env = WLR_DRM_DEVICES,/dev/dri/card0

Reviewer 2: Doesn't the `/dev/dri/by-path/pci-...` path work here? I assume there's no issue if you only have one GPU, but for multiple GPUs, the kernel might change their order and break the config unexpectedly.

Author: I didn't know that was possible. I'll change it.

Author: 40200258ea53de6a1056fd19bbf42d282544bc26
This look good?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, looks good.

```

to my hyprland config.

## Additional packages
Install `qt5-wayland`, `qt5ct` and `libva`. Additionally
`libva-nvidia-driver-git` (AUR) to fix crashes in some Electron-based
applications, such as Unity Hub.

> After completing all of the above Hyprland should _at least_ be able to boot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After completing all of the above, Hyprland should _at least_ be able to start.
```
